Research/Acquisition/Methods/EEG/Implementation.md, before:

# How to set up an EEG recording in the lab

[Josephine Zerna](mailto:josephine.zerna@tu-dresden.de)<br>
Faculty of Psychology<br>
TU Dresden

---

## Table of Contents

- [Before](#before)
  - [What to prepare before the study](#what-to-prepare-before-the-study)
  - [What to prepare before each session](#what-to-prepare-before-each-session)
  - [How to inform your participants](#how-to-inform-your-participants)
- [During](#during)
  - [Picking the correct cap](#picking-the-correct-cap)
  - [Connecting the electrodes](#connecting-the-electrodes)
  - [Placing the cap correctly](#placing-the-cap-correctly)
  - [Skin treatment](#skin-treatment)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [After](#after)
    - [Cleaning at the end of each session](#cleaning-at-the-end-of-each-session)
    - [Long-term maintenance of equipment](#long-term-maintenance-of-equipment)

---

## Before
### What to prepare before the study

When preparing your study, make sure that you have the following points covered:
- theory-driven electrode placement (as there is no point in doing a 64-channel EEG when you are only interested in a small cluster of channels)
- the computer paradigm is linked with your physiology software (e.g. [BrainVision Recorder](https://brainvision.com/products/recorder/)) and sends unique triggers for all event types, so when looking at the EEG data afterwards, you know exactly when a stimulus appeared on screen and what kind of stimulus it was
- every necessary piece of equipment is functional and in case it suddenly breaks, you have access to spare equipment - e.g. borrowing something from another lab - so your sessions can continue until your equipment is repaired or replaced

### What to prepare before each session
### How to inform your participants
## During
### Picking the correct cap
### Connecting the electrodes
### Placing the cap correctly
### Skin treatment
### Troubleshooting
## After
### Cleaning at the end of each session
### Long-term maintenance of equipment

Commit message:

wrote what to prepare before each session

Research/Acquisition/Methods/EEG/Implementation.md, after:

# How to set up an EEG recording in the lab

[Josephine Zerna](mailto:josephine.zerna@tu-dresden.de)<br>
Faculty of Psychology<br>
TU Dresden

---

## Table of Contents

- [Before](#before)
  - [What to prepare before the study](#what-to-prepare-before-the-study)
  - [What to prepare before each session](#what-to-prepare-before-each-session)
  - [How to inform your participants](#how-to-inform-your-participants)
- [During](#during)
  - [Picking the correct cap](#picking-the-correct-cap)
  - [Connecting the electrodes](#connecting-the-electrodes)
  - [Placing the cap correctly](#placing-the-cap-correctly)
  - [Skin treatment](#skin-treatment)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [After](#after)
    - [Cleaning at the end of each session](#cleaning-at-the-end-of-each-session)
    - [Long-term maintenance of equipment](#long-term-maintenance-of-equipment)

---

## Before
### What to prepare before the study

When preparing your study, make sure that you have the following points covered:
- theory-driven electrode placement (as there is no point in doing a 64-channel EEG when you are only interested in a small cluster of channels)
- the computer paradigm is linked with your physiology software (e.g. [BrainVision Recorder](https://brainvision.com/products/recorder/)) and sends unique triggers for all event types, so when looking at the EEG data afterwards, you know exactly when a stimulus appeared on screen and what kind of stimulus it was
- every necessary piece of equipment is functional and in case it suddenly breaks, you have access to spare equipment - e.g. borrowing something from another lab - so your sessions can continue until your equipment is repaired or replaced

### What to prepare before each session

This is a list of items you will need for every EEG session:
- A fully charged powerpack
- An amplifier, connected to the powerpack and your physiology software
- A plugboard, connected to the amplifier
- As many electrodes as you need, connected to the plugboard
- Cotton swabs, preferably one-sided and wooden
- Cotton rounds
- Antiseptic solution in an open container (about a third of a shot-glass is enough for one session)
- Abrasive paste in an open container (a dollop of the size of 1-2 hazelnuts is enough for one session)
- A syringe with a drawing up needle, filled with electrolyte gel and no air bubbles
- Plaster tape
- Measuring tape
- Tissue box

### How to inform your participants
## During
### Picking the correct cap
### Connecting the electrodes
### Placing the cap correctly
### Skin treatment
### Troubleshooting
## After
### Cleaning at the end of each session
### Long-term maintenance of equipment
