Research/Administration/Workflow_research_projects/15_Manuscript_submission.md, before:

# Manuscript submission

## Journal choice

Usually, this choice should be made before start to write a manuscript because all journals have different requirements for manuscript creation in their submission guidelines or may even provide a manuscript template.
Now at the latest is the time to choose an appropriate journal for a given manuscript. 

The criteria for choosing an adequate journal are manifold:

- There are several generic target journals for our manuscripts because they deal with personality and individual differences such as (publisher in parentheses):
  - [Journal of Individual Differences](https://www.hogrefe.com/us/journal/journal-of-individual-differences) (Hogrefe)
  - [Journal of Personality](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/14676494) (Wiley)
  - [Journal of Personality and Social Psychology](https://www.apa.org/pubs/journals/psp) (APA)
  - [Journal of Research in Personality](https://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-research-in-personality) (Elsevier)
  - [Personality and Individual Differences](https://www.journals.elsevier.com/personality-and-individual-differences) (Elsevier)
  - [Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin](https://journals.sagepub.com/home/psp) (SAGE)
  - [Personality and Social Psychology Review](https://journals.sagepub.com/home/psr) (SAGE)
  - [Social Psychological and Personality Science](https://journals.sagepub.com/home/spp) (SAGE)
  - [Personality Science](https://ps.psychopen.eu/index.php/ps/index) (Leibniz Psychology)

- Some of the above journals have better reputation than others. Publishing in the *Journal of Personality* or in the *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology* may be more reputable than publishing in *Personality and Individual Differences* or in the *Journal of Individual Differences*.
- The aims and scope of the target journal should or course match your field of research in the broad sense, and virtually every journal has an "Aims and Scope" page, see here for the [Journal of Research in Personality](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/journal-of-research-in-personality/about/aims-and-scope).
- Sometimes the aims and scope of a given journal may match your field of research broadly (e.g., personality psychology), but it only rarely (if at all) publishes articles on your specific research topic (e.g., individual differences in emotion regulation), so you need to skip through the tables of contents of a couple of recent issues or search the journal - in this example for "emotion regulation" – to make sure that your topic has already been covered by this journal before.
- In case your manuscript describes research that follows up on a previous paper, it seems natural to consider the journal that published that paper as outlet for your research (unless its some top tier journal such as *Science* or *Nature Human Behaviour*, in this case, your research needs to be top tier as well).
- The journal impact factor also matters somehow. While the way scientific merit is evaluated is about to change for the better, quantitative metrics will still play a role for, e.g., hiring processes. So, if two journals have a similar scope that matches your piece of research, it may be a good idea to choose the one with the higher impact factor.
- Open access matters in any case, as we want to make sure to not only have our research disseminated as broadly and inclusively as possible. If you have a list of journals that might be appropriate target journals, and only one is an Open Acces journal, you should (all other things equal) choose this one. If therer are several Open Access journals, Article Processing Charges (APCs) may be considered. At TU Dresden, our library has funds to pay APCs up to 2000 EUR, you simply need to [apply for it](https://www.slub-dresden.de/veroeffentlichen/open-access-finanzieren). While most if not all of the above listed journals offer an Opan Access option, generic Open Access journals for our field of research are (among others):
  - [Frontiers in Psychology](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/psychology)
  - [PLoS ONE](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/)
  - [BMC Psychology](https://bmcpsychology.biomedcentral.com)
  - [Personality Science](https://ps.psychopen.eu/index.php/ps/index)<br>
  

- Also, the estimated duration of the review process may matter. Some journals have information on the median duration of the review process or the time between submission and rejection or acceptance. There are also web pages where users enter their experiences with the time it took to review/reject/accept their constribution. Unfortunately, I just can find a link to such a web page ... <!- if someone has such a link, please insert it here -->  
- A not unimportant issue to consider is whether not only the journal, but the publisher of that journal has a good reputation. Firstly, there are established publishers who engage in questionable publishing practices, i.e., they will charge you, your funders or your readers (or all at once) with as many money they can get (some top publishers world-wide make more money than Apple!). Secondly, there is a vast number of so-called *predatory journals* out there that have no reputation, will print everything after a not so strict review process, and charge you with a comparably high APC. There are lists of predatory journals opn the internet, but some may be outdated, some may be biased, so simply search for "Journal Name & predatory" and use your common sense. So make sure that your target journal is not a *"bad one"*, and if in doubt, ask colleagues.

So your decision for a target journal should rest on the following considerations (to be weighted in this order):

- Does its aims and scope match your piece of research (e.g., because some similar research has been published there)?
- Does it have a good reputation?
- Is it an Open Access journal or has it an option for Open Access (and can you afford the APCs)?
- Does it have an appropriate impact factor (meaning for our field of research and IF &ge; 3) or (for newly established journals) is about to achieve one in the near future?  


## Publication guideline of the TU Dresden

Whenever possible, we adhere to the [Publication Guidelines of the TU Dresden](https://tu-dresden.de/forschung-transfer/forschungsinformationen/publikationsrichtlinien).

## Submission guidelines

As already mentioned, a decision on the journal you want to submit your mansucrit to should have already been made before preparing the manuscript in order to format it appropriately. Yet, even if you consulted the submission guidelines ahead of manuscript preparation, you should now go though these guidelines again to make sure you did not miss some important instruction. As an example for such guidelines, see here:

- [Submission guidelines of PLoS ONE](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/s/submission-guidelines)

Among the guidelines, ther will be instructions artwork you are required to upload. What you should always keep in mind when is comes to artwork is:
- **Prefer vector over raster graphics!**<br>
If you need to combine vector and raster graphics, save them in high resolution (≥ 300 dpi, format depending on the journal). In doubt, use 1000 dpi *.tif images with LZW compression
- **Get yourself the right software tools!**<br>
One for handling vector and one for handling raster graphics. Ideally, they come from the same developer, will be maintained in the foreseeable future, are free and open source or at least do not come with a licence that has to be renewed annually
- **Consult the relevant artwork guidelines!**<br>
If in doubt, use RGB color space, 90 mm width for smaller figures that fit on in column (if the journal uses columns anyway) or 180 mm width for larger figures, and serif font (ideally Helvetica)
- **Think twice when it comes to point and line style and color!**<br>
Point style should meaningful, lines solid, and different colors should remain distinguishable for everyone under every circumstance
- **Provide all necessary information, but not all possible information!**

For details on artwork creation see the following presentation:

- [Graphics: A short guide on how to create figures](https://github.com/alex-strobel/DPP-LabManual/blob/main/Research/Administration/Workflow_research_projects/Resources/Graphics/DPP_LM_Graphics.pdf)

## Submission process

Be prepared that the submission process will take some time! Not only it may be the case that the submission system works slowly. You also may be required to provide information and documents you are not prepared to provide (because you didn't read the submission guidelines carefully enough) such as a cover letter, a significance statement, bullet points summarizing the main findings of your research, a praphical abstract etc. Reserve **at least two hours** for manuscript submission and make sure that at least one co-author will be available for consultation in case you are in doubt on one or another step in the submission process.

After you are done with the submission process, you will receive an PDF version of your submission. This PDF ist to be sent immediately to all co-authors to inform them about the completion of the submission and to save it for their records. It's an absolute **must** when submitting a manuscript to send the PDF of te submission to all co-authors!  
## Consider posting your manuscript as preprint!

You may want to consider to post your submitted manuscript as a preprint, e.g., on [PsyArXiv](https://psyarxiv.com). We usually do that, because:

- our research is made open (so especially for fresh ideas, you can claim that you had it first) and open for discussion
- the preprint is assigned with a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) and can be cited in other work of ours, even if the review process for the actual manuscript will take months/years 
- the majority of journals accept a preprint

Yet, to make sure that naïve readers of your preprint do not assume that it is a valid (i.e., peer-reviewed) piece of science, we at AG.DPP always put the following disclaimer on the title page of our preprints:

> Scientific articles usually go through a peer-review process. This means that independent researchers evaluate the quality of the work, provide suggestions, and speak for or against the publication. Please note that the present article has not (yet) undergone this standard procedure for scientific publications.

This disclaimer has been empirically validated, unfortunately, we forgot by whom ... <!-- if someone knows, please add ref. -->

## Completion of submission

If done with a submission, reward yourself! You know best what will be an adequate reward ...  

[[back](00_How_to_organize_a_research_project.md#organization-of-this-manual)]

Commit message:

added passage on legal issues with preprints

Research/Administration/Workflow_research_projects/15_Manuscript_submission.md, after:

# Manuscript submission

## Journal choice

Usually, this choice should be made before start to write a manuscript because all journals have different requirements for manuscript creation in their submission guidelines or may even provide a manuscript template.
Now at the latest is the time to choose an appropriate journal for a given manuscript. 

The criteria for choosing an adequate journal are manifold:

- There are several generic target journals for our manuscripts because they deal with personality and individual differences such as (publisher in parentheses):
  - [Journal of Individual Differences](https://www.hogrefe.com/us/journal/journal-of-individual-differences) (Hogrefe)
  - [Journal of Personality](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/14676494) (Wiley)
  - [Journal of Personality and Social Psychology](https://www.apa.org/pubs/journals/psp) (APA)
  - [Journal of Research in Personality](https://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-research-in-personality) (Elsevier)
  - [Personality and Individual Differences](https://www.journals.elsevier.com/personality-and-individual-differences) (Elsevier)
  - [Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin](https://journals.sagepub.com/home/psp) (SAGE)
  - [Personality and Social Psychology Review](https://journals.sagepub.com/home/psr) (SAGE)
  - [Social Psychological and Personality Science](https://journals.sagepub.com/home/spp) (SAGE)
  - [Personality Science](https://ps.psychopen.eu/index.php/ps/index) (Leibniz Psychology)

- Some of the above journals have better reputation than others. Publishing in the *Journal of Personality* or in the *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology* may be more reputable than publishing in *Personality and Individual Differences* or in the *Journal of Individual Differences*.
- The aims and scope of the target journal should or course match your field of research in the broad sense, and virtually every journal has an "Aims and Scope" page, see here for the [Journal of Research in Personality](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/journal-of-research-in-personality/about/aims-and-scope).
- Sometimes the aims and scope of a given journal may match your field of research broadly (e.g., personality psychology), but it only rarely (if at all) publishes articles on your specific research topic (e.g., individual differences in emotion regulation), so you need to skip through the tables of contents of a couple of recent issues or search the journal - in this example for "emotion regulation" – to make sure that your topic has already been covered by this journal before.
- In case your manuscript describes research that follows up on a previous paper, it seems natural to consider the journal that published that paper as outlet for your research (unless its some top tier journal such as *Science* or *Nature Human Behaviour*, in this case, your research needs to be top tier as well).
- The journal impact factor also matters somehow. While the way scientific merit is evaluated is about to change for the better, quantitative metrics will still play a role for, e.g., hiring processes. So, if two journals have a similar scope that matches your piece of research, it may be a good idea to choose the one with the higher impact factor.
- Open access matters in any case, as we want to make sure to not only have our research disseminated as broadly and inclusively as possible. If you have a list of journals that might be appropriate target journals, and only one is an Open Acces journal, you should (all other things equal) choose this one. If therer are several Open Access journals, Article Processing Charges (APCs) may be considered. At TU Dresden, our library has funds to pay APCs up to 2000 EUR, you simply need to [apply for it](https://www.slub-dresden.de/veroeffentlichen/open-access-finanzieren). While most if not all of the above listed journals offer an Opan Access option, generic Open Access journals for our field of research are (among others):
  - [Frontiers in Psychology](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/psychology)
  - [PLoS ONE](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/)
  - [BMC Psychology](https://bmcpsychology.biomedcentral.com)
  - [Personality Science](https://ps.psychopen.eu/index.php/ps/index)<br>
  

- Also, the estimated duration of the review process may matter. Some journals have information on the median duration of the review process or the time between submission and rejection or acceptance. There are also web pages where users enter their experiences with the time it took to review/reject/accept their constribution. Unfortunately, I just can find a link to such a web page ... <!- if someone has such a link, please insert it here -->  
- A not unimportant issue to consider is whether not only the journal, but the publisher of that journal has a good reputation. Firstly, there are established publishers who engage in questionable publishing practices, i.e., they will charge you, your funders or your readers (or all at once) with as many money they can get (some top publishers world-wide make more money than Apple!). Secondly, there is a vast number of so-called *predatory journals* out there that have no reputation, will print everything after a not so strict review process, and charge you with a comparably high APC. There are lists of predatory journals opn the internet, but some may be outdated, some may be biased, so simply search for "Journal Name & predatory" and use your common sense. So make sure that your target journal is not a *"bad one"*, and if in doubt, ask colleagues.

So your decision for a target journal should rest on the following considerations (to be weighted in this order):

- Does its aims and scope match your piece of research (e.g., because some similar research has been published there)?
- Does it have a good reputation?
- Is it an Open Access journal or has it an option for Open Access (and can you afford the APCs)?
- Does it have an appropriate impact factor (meaning for our field of research and IF &ge; 3) or (for newly established journals) is about to achieve one in the near future?  


## Publication guideline of the TU Dresden

Whenever possible, we adhere to the [Publication Guidelines of the TU Dresden](https://tu-dresden.de/forschung-transfer/forschungsinformationen/publikationsrichtlinien).

## Submission guidelines

As already mentioned, a decision on the journal you want to submit your mansucrit to should have already been made before preparing the manuscript in order to format it appropriately. Yet, even if you consulted the submission guidelines ahead of manuscript preparation, you should now go though these guidelines again to make sure you did not miss some important instruction. As an example for such guidelines, see here:

- [Submission guidelines of PLoS ONE](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/s/submission-guidelines)

Among the guidelines, ther will be instructions artwork you are required to upload. What you should always keep in mind when is comes to artwork is:
- **Prefer vector over raster graphics!**<br>
If you need to combine vector and raster graphics, save them in high resolution (≥ 300 dpi, format depending on the journal). In doubt, use 1000 dpi *.tif images with LZW compression
- **Get yourself the right software tools!**<br>
One for handling vector and one for handling raster graphics. Ideally, they come from the same developer, will be maintained in the foreseeable future, are free and open source or at least do not come with a licence that has to be renewed annually
- **Consult the relevant artwork guidelines!**<br>
If in doubt, use RGB color space, 90 mm width for smaller figures that fit on in column (if the journal uses columns anyway) or 180 mm width for larger figures, and serif font (ideally Helvetica)
- **Think twice when it comes to point and line style and color!**<br>
Point style should meaningful, lines solid, and different colors should remain distinguishable for everyone under every circumstance
- **Provide all necessary information, but not all possible information!**

For details on artwork creation see the following presentation:

- [Graphics: A short guide on how to create figures](https://github.com/alex-strobel/DPP-LabManual/blob/main/Research/Administration/Workflow_research_projects/Resources/Graphics/DPP_LM_Graphics.pdf)

## Submission process

Be prepared that the submission process will take some time! Not only it may be the case that the submission system works slowly. You also may be required to provide information and documents you are not prepared to provide (because you didn't read the submission guidelines carefully enough) such as a cover letter, a significance statement, bullet points summarizing the main findings of your research, a praphical abstract etc. Reserve **at least two hours** for manuscript submission and make sure that at least one co-author will be available for consultation in case you are in doubt on one or another step in the submission process.

After you are done with the submission process, you will receive an PDF version of your submission. This PDF ist to be sent immediately to all co-authors to inform them about the completion of the submission and to save it for their records. It's an absolute **must** when submitting a manuscript to send the PDF of te submission to all co-authors!  
## Consider posting your manuscript as preprint!

You may want to consider to post your submitted manuscript as a preprint, e.g., on [PsyArXiv](https://psyarxiv.com). We usually do that, because:

- our research is made open (so especially for fresh ideas, you can claim that you had it first) and open for discussion
- the preprint is assigned with a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) and can be cited in other work of ours, even if the review process for the actual manuscript will take months/years 
- the majority of journals accept a preprint

Yet, to make sure that naïve readers of your preprint do not assume that it is a valid (i.e., peer-reviewed) piece of science, we at AG.DPP always put the following disclaimer on the title page of our preprints:

> Scientific articles usually go through a peer-review process. This means that independent researchers evaluate the quality of the work, provide suggestions, and speak for or against the publication. Please note that the present article has not (yet) undergone this standard procedure for scientific publications.

This disclaimer has been empirically validated, unfortunately, we forgot by whom ... <!-- if someone knows, please add ref. -->

Another very important aspect to consider about preprints is that you cannot just update the preprint version any time you want.
It might sound bizarre, but as soon as reviewers have suggested changes to your manuscript and you have implemented them, the manuscript is not solely your own intellectual porperty anymore.
This means that there are three different types of stages in which you might want to upload a preprint:

1. Before submitting your manuscript to a journal<br>
&rarr; Yes, please do so!
2. After the first round of reviews<br>
&rarr; No, your might get sued.
3. After it had been type-set by the journal aka your *author proof*<br>
&rarr; Absolutely not, you will definitely get sued.

Even if you publish Open Access and pay the fee, many journals still have an embargo on your article, which specifies after which period of time (usually 6-12 months) you are allowed to distribute your article by yourself.
Journals do that, so they can get more clicks on *their* version.
Always make sure to check the specific Open Access guidelines of the journal that you chose to publish in.

## Completion of submission

If done with a submission, reward yourself! You know best what will be an adequate reward ...  

[[back](00_How_to_organize_a_research_project.md#organization-of-this-manual)]
